# SuryaDrishti

Solar Flare Catalogue from 3 Years of Chandrayaan-2 XSM Observations. If you use the catalogue or this pipeline, please cite Valluvan et al. 2024 (https://doi.org/10.1007/s11207-023-02244-0).

Copyright (C) 2024 Aravind Bharathi Valluvan, Ashwin Goyal and Devansh Jain.

A daily updated version of the catalogue will soon be available on the Indian Space Science Data Centre (ISSDC) Pradan website (https://pradan.issdc.gov.in/ch2/).

## Dependencies

Python libraries:
1. `numpy`
2. `matplotlib`
3. `scipy`
4. `astropy`
5. `pandas`
6. `lmfit`

## Installation Procedure

1. Clone this repository
```
git clone https://github.com/DEVANSH-DVJ/SuryaDrishti.git
```
2. Download XSM L2 `.lc` data files from the [PRADAN website](https://pradan.issdc.gov.in/ch2/). Unzip them and place them under a `/data/Lightcurves/` folder.
3. Define data path in `utils.py` if they are not under `/data/Lightcurves/`.
4. Set up for bulk execution using `logmain.py`
    - n_proc: number of processors to be used
    - glob = Config(): Config variables (refer to sd.py)
    - gen argument should be set to `True`
    - start_date: starting date of files
    - numdays: number of days to process from start_date
5. Run 
```
python logmain.py <output_root>
```
where output root is the name of the folder `/data/Runs/<output_root>`

## Repository Structure

- `/catalog`: Contains full solar flare catalogs discussed in Valluvan et al 2023. Can be generated by running `logmain.py`
- `/data/Runs`: Output files from `logmain.py` can be found here
- `/scripts`: Contains the scripts used to preprocess data
- `fit.py`: Curve-fitting codes
- `logmain.py`: Script to process lightcurves in parallel and generate a log file. 
- `main.py`: Script to process lightcurves in parallel. More efficient than `logmain.py` but does not generate a log file. 
- `plot.py`: Plotting functions used in analysis
- `sd.py`: All lightcurve functions. `main.py` and `logmain.py` calls the functions in this file.
- `utils.py`: General-purpose functions
